---
layout: default
---
The course was an introduction to command-line used in terminal on Linux 
or Unix. The aim was to introduce to the general use of terminal and 
different programs in it, but also to give an example of possible uses 
of Unix/Linux in language technology and linguistics.

## Week 1
The first week was an introduction to the topic of the course and the 
main commands that will be needed during the course. This first week 
was, even if I did hand it in late, quite easy, since many of the 
commands were already familiar to me from the introduction course to 
language technology.

## Week 2
The second week gave a clearer picture of the organization of files in 
Unix or Linux, how files and directories ar organized, the permissions 
needed for making changes and the chmod command used to change the 
access permissions. Finally, the material introduced working on a remote 
server, which ould become a central topic during the rest of the course.

## Week 3
DUring week three, the focus was on text processing. This included the 
use of regular expressions in Unix or Linux, which was very interesting 
because from the previously mentioned introduction course to language 
technology, regular expressions were already somewhat familiar to me but 
not in this context. This week gave a very concrete example of how the 
Unix system can be used when studying languages.

## Week 4
Week four introduced to PATHs and the .bashrc file. This topic was a bit 
harder for me to grasp and I feel I did not understand fully how to 
navigate in the system so that my commands don't "get lost" because the 
actions I am trying to do have a problem related to the PATH.

## Week 5
During week five, we worked on running other programs such as Python or 
C on terminal. Although I did understand that the use of other languages 
can be needed in certain situation and that different programs require 
the use of different types of commands, I did not fully understand how 
they function. It was interesting though, because here too we got a real 
example of how to make use of computers and programming for studying 
languages.

## Week 6
Finally, week six introduced us to using one more program, Java, on 
terminal, as well as gitHub. It took me a while to understand the 
interaction of Linux and gitHub, and I feel like I am only grasping it 
fully while doing the final assignment, but I find it fascinating and 
keep discovering new ways of using my compluter that I completely 
ignored before. I did not manage to push my work for week six on gitHub 
though because I made a mistake and closed terminal, after which I 
didn't know how to get it back anymore.

## Week 7
As I mentioned above, I feel like I am only now grasping completely what 
gitHub and many other things on this course were about. I didn't manage 
to finish all exercises during the previous weeks or answer right in the 
quizzes, but I think I still have learnt something, because I 
encountered quite a few problems while doing this final assignment, but 
at least for now, I have managed to fix all of them. I do not know if I 
hate programming or I love it, but when you have been stuck on a problem 
for hours and finally manage to solve it, it's a pretty good feeling you 
don't get that often when your studies are otherwise focused on 
essay-like tests.
